---
title: '2. Config repo and set up the config server for Azure Spring Apps'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Lab 2: Migrate a Spring Apps application to Azure'
---

# Set up a configuration repository

Azure Spring Apps service provides a config server for the use of Spring apps. As part of its setup, you need to link it to a git repo. The current configuration used by the Spring microservices resides in the [config folder of the GitHub repository of this lab](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/tree/master/config). You will need to create your own private git repo in this exercise, since, in one of its steps, you will be changing some of the configuration settings.

As part of the setup process, you need to create a Personal Access Token (PAT) in your GitHub repo and make it available to the Application Configuration Service. It is important that you make note of the PAT after it has been created.

- [Guidance for creating a PAT](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token).

## Step by step guidance

1. On your lab computer, in your web browser, navigate to your GitHub account, navigate to the **Repositories** page and create a new private repository named **spring-petclinic-microservices-config**.

    > **Note**: Make sure to configure the repository as private. In one of the exercises this config repository will contain a secret value.

1. To create a PAT, select the avatar icon in the upper right corner, and then select **Settings**.

1. At the bottom of the vertical navigation menu, select **Developer settings**, select **Personal access tokens**, and then select **Generate new token**.

1. On the **New personal access token** page, in the **Note** text box, enter a descriptive name, such as **spring-petclinic-config-server-token**.

    > **Note**: There is a new **Beta** experience available on GitHub for more fine-grained access tokens. This experience will create a token with a more limited scope than full repository scope (which basically gives access to all your repositories). The lab will work as well with a more fine-grained token, in that case, in the **Fine-grained tokens (Beta)** token creation page, choose for **Only select repositories** and select your config repository. For the **Repository permissions** select for the **Contents** the **Read-only** access level. You can use this fine-grained token when you configure your config-server on Azure Spring Apps. We recommend you create a second token in case you also need a personal access token for interacting with the repositories from the Git Bash prompt.

1. In the **Select scopes** section, select **repo** and then select **Generate token**.

1. Record the generated token. You will need it in this and subsequent labs.

    > **Note**: You can check the validity of your token with the following statement: `curl -XGET -H 'authorization: token <token_value>' 'https://api.github.com/repos/<user_name>/spring-petclinic-microservices-config'`. This statement should succeed. If it does not, redo the above steps for generating the PAT token.

1. From the Git Bash prompt, change the current directory to the **workspaces** folder. Next, clone the newly created GitHub repository by typing `git clone `, pasting the clone URL you copied into Clipboard in the previous step, and entering the PAT string followed by the `@` symbol in front of `github.com`. In case you haven't already you can also clone here your code repository.

   ```bash
   cd ~/workspaces
   # Clone config repo
   git clone https://<token>@github.com/<your-github-username>/spring-petclinic-microservices-config.git
    
   # Clone source code repo
   git clone https://<token>@github.com/<your-github-username>/Deploying-and-Running-Java-Applications-in-Azure-Spring-Apps.git

   ```

     > **Note**: Make sure to replace the `<token>` and `<your-github-username>` placeholders in the URL listed above with the value of the GitHub PAT and your GitHub user name when running the `git clone` command.

1. From the Git Bash prompt, change the current directory to the newly created **spring-petclinic-microservices-config** folder and run the following commands to copy all the config server configuration yaml files from the [config folder of this labs' GitHub repository](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/tree/master/config) to the local folder on your lab computer.

   ```bash
   cd spring-petclinic-microservices-config
   curl -o admin-server.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/master/config/admin-server.yml
   curl -o api-gateway.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/master/config/api-gateway.yml
   curl -o application.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/master/config/application.yml
   curl -o customers-service.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/master/config/customers-service.yml
   curl -o discovery-server.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/master/config/discovery-server.yml
   curl -o tracing-server.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/master/config/tracing-server.yml
   curl -o vets-service.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/master/config/vets-service.yml
   curl -o visits-service.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/master/config/visits-service.yml
   curl -o messaging-emulator.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/master/config/messaging-emulator.yml
   ```

1. From the Git Bash prompt, run the following commands to commit and push your changes to your private GitHub repository.

   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m 'added base config'
   git push
   ```

1. In your web browser, refresh the page of the newly created **spring-petclinic-microservices-config** repository and double check that all the configuration files are there.

### Set up the config server for Azure Spring Apps
    
Once you completed the initial update of your git repository hosting the server configuration, you need to set up the config server for your Azure Spring Apps instance. 

- [Guidance on config server setup](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/spring-apps/quickstart-setup-config-server?tabs=Azure-CLI&pivots=programming-language-java).
- [Guidance for a private repo with basic authentication](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/spring-apps/how-to-config-server#private-repository-with-basic-authentication).

1. Switch to the Git Bash prompt and run the following commands to set the environment variables hosting your GitHub repository and GitHub credentials (replace the `<git-repository>`, `<git-username>`, and `<git-PAT>` placeholders with the URL of your GitHub repository, the name of your GitHub user account, and the newly generated PAT value, respectively).

    > **Note**: The URL of the GitHub repository should be in the format `https://github.com/<your-github-username>/spring-petclinic-microservices-config.git`, where the `<your-github-username>` placeholder represents your GitHub user name.

   ```bash
   GIT_REPO=<git-repository>
   GIT_USERNAME=<git-username>
   GIT_PASSWORD=<git-PAT>
   ```

1. To set up the config server such that it points to your GitHub repository, from the Git Bash prompt, run the following command.

   ```bash
   az spring config-server git set \
                           --name $SPRING_APPS_SERVICE \
                           --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
                           --uri $GIT_REPO \
                           --label main \
                           --password $GIT_PASSWORD \
                           --username $GIT_USERNAME 
   ```

    > **Note**: In case you are using a branch other than `main` in your config repo, you can change the branch name with the `label` parameter.

    > **Note**: Wait for the operation to complete. This might take about 2 minutes.
